# README for COSC7502 parallel implementation authored by Joel Thomas.
# Explanation of the different files found in this zip folder:
1) The project.cu file contains the parallel implementation programmed in CUDA C++.
2) The run.bat file can be used to compile, execute and clean up an -O2 compiler-optimised version of project.cu on a Windows PC. A capable NVIDIA GPU along with the latest CUDA Toolkit providing the necessary CUDA libraries as well as the nvcc compiler is required to compile and run the program successfully. Also note that the --gpu-architecture flag will likely need to be changed to match users' GPU compute capability (code was developed on an RTX 3060 Ti with compute capability 8.6). Users can identify their NVIDIA GPU's compute capability via https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus.
3) A Makefile and Slurm bash script (goslurm.sh) have been provided to perform the same instructions in step 2) but on UQ SMP's Getafix HPC cluster instead. No changes to the --gpu-architecture flag in the Makefile are needed since it has already been set to match the cluster's V100s' compute capability of 7.0. IMPORTANT - the only module load command that must be issued prior to running "make project" is to "module load cuda" to be able to successfully compile the parallel implementation.
4) The project_output.txt file contains the standard output one should expect to receive when performing step 3) above.
5) The diagrams.ipynb file is a Jupyter Notebook file that is used to generate many of the figures appearing in Chapter 2 of the project report. The required Python libraries are matplotlib, numpy and jupyter which can be installed easily via the pip package manager for Python.
6) The Tests folder contain four sub-folders, each to store the results of conducting verification, compiler optimsation flags, scaling and GPU threads benchmark tests. For each of the Verification, Flags, Scaling and Threads sub-folders, a Makefile and Slurm bash script (goslurm.sh) are provided to compile and run the project on the cluster and conduct these benchmark tests. The output from these are represented as e.g. N100_M10000.txt files where the N100 and M10000 represent the values of N and M respectively that were used in conducting the tests.